# Architecture
### Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
For this project, the MEAN stack was used to develop a web application that implements the Model-View-Controller architecture. With this architecture, the application’s data, display, and application logic are decoupled, allowing the application to be more easily maintained well into the future. The public-facing front end of this application uses Express to serve static HTML pages with Handlebars templates. JavaScript is used for all of the server-side code, while the Angular single-page application for site administration is implemented with TypeScript. In this SPA, only a single page load will be requested from the application server when the admin page is visited, with data being dynamically updated as needed using JSON data instead of HTML. This reduced number of requests to the server and use of client-side frameworks provides better performance for users and ease of deployment for developers.
### Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
Because documents are stored in MongoDB as BSON objects that can be retrieved as JSON objects, it was easily integrated with the front end web application. It is also highly scalable, making future growth possible as the app expands.
# Functionality
### How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JavaScript is a programming language that is a fundamental part of web applications, being used by the vast majority of websites alongside HTML and CSS to deliver client-side web pages. JSON, JavaScript Object Notation, is a language-independent file format that uses key-value pairs and arrays to store data. Because JSON can be used to transfer data between different applications in different languages, it excels at tying together the front end and back end of this web application.
### Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
In module 7, the code was refactored to add security functionality to the admin SPA. Refactoring also replaced static HTML with HBS template data, increasing reusability and code readability. Reusable UI components improve visual consistency throughout the web app, reduce development time, and promote easy scaling and maintenance in the future.
# Testing
### Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
The web app API is made up of methods that are called and deliver some sort of functionality, like making requests to API endpoints. Endpoints return responses to these requests, and can be secured to prevent unauthorized users from making requests. In this project, JWT authentication and authorization is used to prevent unauthorized users from adding or editing data from the admin SPA.
# Reflection
### How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
Being introduced to the full-stack development concepts that were covered in this course improve my overall knowledge of computer science and development practices, and build a foundation for future professional growth. Experience with the MEAN stack is a valuable skillset that can help me stand out to future employers looking for front end, back end, or full stack devs.
